---
title: Devlog 6 - Review of all columns
date: 2020-03-14
summary: Rather than focusing on filling out a few columns, I started going through the data row by row to make sure everything was there.

---

# Review of All Columns

As we've had different people inputting different things and sometimes the same things, it got a little confusing where we were at. I, therefore, took a row-by-row approach to review everything that had been inputted to date and input anything that was missing. The missing informaiton was consistently the NumberOfComponents, Group1, Category1 and Subcategory 1 as this data is not explicitly stated in the material records but can be extrapolated from artifacts with all the information already digitized. For most artifaccts, there was a single component which could be categorized as Group1 *Exploration and Survey*, Category1 *Landmarks* and Subcategory1 *Markers*. I also added or edited other data. I left stopped after the 19th artifact, so **I will have to return to artifact no. 20**.

# Concerns, Questions and Things of Note

1. We have two columns titled GeneralDescription, the second of which we added. We will need to be certain that the second contains all the information listed in the first and more if we want to use the one we are adding.

2. Several column are empty and can be removed in the clean copy. These columns are Model, SerialNumber, ManuProvince, Patent, Group2, Category2, Subcategory2, Group3, Category3, Subcategory3, Thickness, and Weight.

3. We added a Location column to identify where the marker was situated. The information in the Location column is sometimes interchangeable with the CanadaContext column that was already in the downloaded Excel sheet. We had also added Longitude and Latitude columns, with the goal of finding the exact location of the markers. However, as the location information is largely provided in terms of town grids, Jessica and I decided to remove these columns as it would be too much work to identify the longitude and latitude. 

4. We should standardize the ReplaceWith column as we have some items are the same but phrased differently. For example, there is "old pattern iron post" and there is "iron post (old pattern)".

5. I want to combine the ReplacementDate (which we added) and FoundDate (which we added) with the EndDate (which was already there but empty). This would streamline our understanding of the length of time a marker was in place as we would not have to look at multiple columns to figure out when it stopped. In recognition of the different means of reaching its end at that location, I will add a column the identifies whether it was found, replaced, etc. (I understand being *found* as also being removed from the original location as it would have to have been both located and removed for the artifact to make its way into the museum's collections.)

6. We should also standardize how we identify the surveyors who are known by their first initials, surname and title. *P.L.S.* is the acronym for *Provincial Land Surveyor* and *D.L.S.* is the acronym for *Dominion Land Surveyor*. The acronym and full title are used interchangeably. I think we should consistently use the full title as there is no legend to tell people what P.L.S or D.L.S. mean. 
