---
date: 2020-01-19
title: Devlog 1 - Collections and Collection
summary: 

---

### The Contemporary Colonization of History

History is not objective. History is subject to the various biases of the people and systems involved in its representation. Therefore, attention must be paid to the ways we represent history and the impact of those representations. 

Contemporary museums are derived from colonial approaches to understanding history. They are “the legacies of institutions whose missions were to preserve, categorize, and document human achievement and history at a time when large portions of our populations weren’t considered human at all” (Bivens et al. 125). This has impacted how we collect, value and represent history. For example, colonial approaches to museology have justified cultural appropriation in history. Nathan Sentance suggests that 
> people often state that one of the reasons why archives and museums collect First Nations cultural heritage is to preserve it from its inevitable historical decay or loss. I would argue that this reasoning was conceived to legitimise the theft of cultural heritage and is false as First Nations people do not need help preserving culture.
History has traditionally been represented in a way that privileges European achievements and devalues any other history. It is important to acknowledge the colonial roots in museums in order to decolonize history. 

Collaboration has been proposed as a way to combat the persisting colonization of history. Collaboration allows us to gain a better understanding of what it is we are preserving and representing. Regarding the preservation of cultures, Sentence argues that “if not being preserved in the right context, it is not being preserved at all”. Consent, access and voice have been proposed as tools through which collectors and those whose culture is being collected can collaborate on the preservation of history (Bevins et al. 125). Through collaboration, we can better represent cultures and histories as they were experienced. We can decolonize museum institutions by providing a voice to those whose history and culture we wish to preserve. 

### Studying Colonization in Canada

For **HIST 4806A: Museums + Digital**, I have the option of working with one of three collections from the Canadian Museum of History, the Canadian Museum of Nature, or the Canada Science and Technology Museum (CSTM). I am most interested in working with CSTM’s collection of survey markers and the associated records deriving from the colonization of Canada. The previous discussions on decolonizing history and my previous experience studying post-colonialism and Indigenous issues influence my interest in working with this collection. CSTM’s record would provide a different perspective on the colonization and land management of Canada.

### A Quick Review of the Collections at CSTM

[Ingenium Collections]( https://ingeniumcanada.org/collection-research/collection-highlights)

Are the digitized records easy to access? *Yes, they are clearly labelled, easy to locate, and well organized according to museum and associated subject.*

Are the records detailed? Yes, they are fairly detailed, although the amount of information differs from record to record. The records contain information about the highlights of the object, an image gallery, its history, its current location, its provenance and its technical information. Images of the objects are included in the records. 

Are there 3D renderings of the objects? No. 

Is the provenance included? Yes. However, the detail of the provenance varies: a [bull tractor](https://ingeniumcanada.org/artifact/12-24-bull-tractor) included only provenance relating to its arrival at the museum, while a [A.E.A. Silver Dart aircraft](https://ingeniumcanada.org/artifact/aea-silver-dart) included details on its creation and its use. 

### Works Cited

Bivens, Joy, and Ben Garcia, Porchia Moore, nikhil trivedi, Aletheia Wittman. 2019. “Collections: How We Hold the Stuff We Hold in Trust” in MASSAction, Museums As Site for Social Action, toolkit, [https://static1.squarespace.com/static/58fa685dff7c50f78be5f2b2/t/59dcdd27e]( https://static1.squarespace.com/static/58fa685dff7c50f78be5f2b2/t/59dcdd27e)

Sentance, Nathan mudyi. 2018. “Why Do We Collect,” Archival Decolonist blog, August 18, 2018, [https://archivaldecolonist.com/2018/08/18/why-do-we-collect/](https://archivaldecolonist.com/2018/08/18/why-do-we-collect/)

