---
date: 2020-03-01
title: Devlog 4 - Issues with the Data
summary: Starting work on cleaning the data, and noticing discrepancies and things to discuss with team.

---

# Issues with the Data

My tasks were/are to create a [Process Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OfbnoV0E-AJJzlAjM_MHwy9q5EhSI7ua3aapiJwJSzI/edit?usp=sharing) to track our decisions and to add dates to our data sheet. It took me a moment to figure out how to match the data in the excel sheet to the information from the photos Elise took on the material documents at the CSTM (730683 is equivalent to 1973.0683.001). This raises questions about where the 19 comes from. And it is not the century as markers originated in the 1800s still start with 19. It will be important to determine what the 19 means as we will have to add some excluded markers to the data and we will need to accurately identify the artifactNumber. However, the last three numbers (.001) refers to the object within the marker (for example, some markers have been broken into pieces). 

I also noticed that the data from one record to the other is not always the same and the justification for the differences are unclear to me. Some markers were identified as being found at a certain date. I added a FoundDate column, but the definition of found is unclear to me. Where the surveyors looking to confirm its presence or if it needed replacing? So far, the markers do not have both found and replacement dates, so the latter is a possibility. Additionally, one object (artifact 15 - 730697) in the 31 that I looked through included a date to idenitfy the addition of an inscription. **We might want to add a column about inscriptions and when they were added. We should also probably add a column about what the original markers were replaced with, if there is not already such a column.**

### Missing Artifacts

Many artifacts were not listed in the data sheet. **We should probably cross-check the missing data with the original data from before everything but the survey markers was removed from the sheet.**

List of missing artifacts in data sheet
- Number 2, 730684
- Number 3, 730685
- Number 6, 730688
- Number 7, 730689
- Number 8, 730690
- Number 9, 730691
- Number 14, 730696
- Number 19, 730701
- Number 20, 730702
- Number 21, 730703
- Number 22, 730704
- Number 23, 730705 .1-.2
- Number 27, 730709
- Number 28, 730710
- Number 30, 730712
- Number 31, 730713

**Please note that I ended this session of going through the data at Object Number 31.**

### Other Issues

The current data of Object Number 25, 730707 lists the BeginDate as 1954, but the records suggest otherwise. The records speaks to the marker being found (unclear when) and replaced in 1954, and does not speak to the original date of placement. **We should see about confirming and clarifying dates (especially the original date).**

