---
date: 2020-02-17
title: Devlog 2 - Figuring It Out, Kinda
Summary: A visit to the Canadian Science and Technology Museum. Slowly figuring out what I am doing.

---

# First Steps and Data Sets

Elise and I visited the Canadian Science and Technology Museum to look at the materials we are working with and figure out what we are doing for this project. I started out the day really unsure of what we were doing and how we were going to do it. 

However, I focused on figuring out how to [make an API with Datasette](https://shawngraham.github.io/dhmuse/datasette-with-glitch/). I followed the instructions provided by Professor Graham and, with some help from Elise, figured out how to create the dataset. I opened CSV in the text editor Notepad and was very confused by the immediate overload of seemingly nonsensical information. After some analyzation, I figured out that it categorized the information available on the objects listed in the dataset. Elise and I brainstormed some ideas to categorize the information we have regarding the survey markers. **We identitied the following possible caretories: location, catalogue number, collection number, original date, replacement date, removal date, name of object, surveyor's name, description, inscription, context, material, dimensions and image link.**

I struggled with Glitch. The file would not upload. This failure or difficulty may have something to do with the email I only saw later about a "third-party OAuth application". Either way, I gave up on Glitch for now. Glitch seems like a later step that is not necessary for where we are at in the project right now. Also, I figured I would speak to Professor Graham about Glitch later if needed.

Elise and I also took photos of the the records we thought were relevant; these were largely the documents listing the survey markers and not the books setting out guidelines for survey marking. I put together a Shared Google Drive where the whole team can upload their images and relevant documentation. You can view the Google Drive at the following link: [https://drive.google.com/open?id=17ov3XgXfAhzAqayL_sSE_eZdTRQMYoQr](https://drive.google.com/open?id=17ov3XgXfAhzAqayL_sSE_eZdTRQMYoQr). 

**Our next step seems to be determining how to digitize the information about the survey markers into a dataset similar to the CSV example provided by the professor.** I think we might have to manually input all the data, but Elise suspects that there is an easier way. We will shortly plan another meeting with the rest of the team to disucss a way forward. 
