---
title: Devlog 7 - Working in the Quarantine
date: 2020-03-23
summary: another update of working on data (but this time while social distancing)
---

# Working in the Quarantine

It is final papers and exam season for me. I am too busy with school and work (from home) to go stir-crazy. We are nearing the end of this digitization project and I feel like there is too much to do and not enough time. 

Upon reflection, I think it would have been easier to start from scratch when we began this project, rather than building off what was already digitized. I think it would have been easier and more straight-forward to identify the content (columns) we wanted, set standards, and then divide the work by columns. I find that it is rather difficult to continually try to identify what is missing and to fill in columns that we do not have the information for, or that we do not understand/need. 

Last devlog, I wrote about how I was going row by row to ensure all the information was there. This proved too time-consuming so I identified the main columns I was working on and worked to fill those out. These columns were Material, Group1, Category1, and Subcategory1. By scrolling through these columns, I could largely identify which rows were missing information as the items that had been digitized by the museum already had the group, category and subcategory listed. Once I identified these rows, I went back to fill them out with all the information we had available. I found that I was largely filling out the information for artifacts with more than one piece. The first piece would have its information filled out, but the subsequent pieces would only have the artifact number digitized. Eventually, while filling out these rows, I realized that some artifacts were missing from the spreadsheet as there was a gap in artifact numbers. I realized that although we had started the work to add the missing artifacts, the work had not been completed. I feel that we do not have the time to complete all that needs to be done, while still giving time for Maggie to make the API. 

